---
title: "Chinese Culture Reading List"
layout: post
date: 2019-04-08 13:07
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/muzi-storm/indigo/gh-pages/assets/images/zhongguowenhua1.jpg
headerImage: true
projects: Chinese Culture Course
tag:
- Chinese Culture Course
category: blog
author: paulstorm
description: A reading list for an introductory course on Chinese culture
---
<h2>Chinese Culture Introductory Reading List</h2>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp; When I moved to China in 2015 I could not speak a word of Chinese and my knowledge of Chinese history and traditional culture didn&rsquo;t go beyond the couple of pages of Confucius we read in High School. So I set out what I thought would be a couple of simple task: learn the Chinese language and gain a basic understanding of Chinese culture and history.&nbsp; Easy, right? Accordingly, I began to look through various sources to find a comprehensive list of the Chinese classics. Over the years as I read through the books the list has grown longer and longer as I learned more about the tradition and finally started reading some Chinese materials on the subject.&nbsp; Below is my current list of texts that I believe form a solid foundation for understanding, enjoying and investigating the Chinese tradition.&nbsp; They vary greatly in length with most of the literary texts being selections taken from an anthology on the subject some of which are quite short, the novels on the other hand are all multi-volumes works spanning thousands of pages and hundreds of stories.&nbsp; &nbsp;<br /><br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Overall, I consider this list to be almost finished (I would like to add a collection of Chinese myths and possibly a book on Chinese architecture and maaaaayyyybe another book on modern Chinese history).&nbsp; The other element that could be added would be a text like 中国文化全知道 (Everything About Chinese Culture) which gives a good overview of subjects like dance and traditional Chinese medicine.&nbsp; However, I am still an introductory student of Chinese culture and any recommendations are more than welcome!</p>
<h3>Philosophy</h3>
<p>1. The Five Classics<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. The I&rsquo;Ching<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. The Spring and Autumn Annals<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. The Book of Rites<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;d. The Book of Odes<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;e. The Book of Documents<br /><br />2. Selections I: The Hundred Schools<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Mozi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Zhuangzi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Huizi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;d. Xunzi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;e. Sunzi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; f. Han Feizi<br /><br />3. The Daodejing<br /><br />4. The Analects<br /><br />5. The Mencius<br /><br />6. Selections II: A Female Confucianist<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Ban Zhao<br /><br />7. Selections III: The Han Synthesis<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Dong Zhongshu<br /><br />8. Selection IV: Daoism and Buddhism<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Ge Hong<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b.&nbsp; Xuanzang<br /><br />9. Selections V: Song and Tang Thought - Neo-Confucianism<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Han Yu<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Dun Yi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Cheng Hao<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;d. Cheng Yi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; e. Zhuxi<br /><br />10. Selections VI: Song Science<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Shen Kuo<br /><br />11. Selections VII: Ming Contributions<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Wang Yangming<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Lu Jiuyuan<br /><br />12. Selections VIII: Three Great Qing Philosophers<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Huang Zhongxi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Gu Tanwu<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Wang Fuzhi<br /><br />13. Selections IX: Pre-Modern Thought<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Kang Youwei<br /><br />14. Selections X-XI: Modern Chinese Thought<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Sun Yat-sen<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Hu Shi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Mao Zedong<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;d. Feng Youlan</p>
<h3>The Arts</h3>
<p><em>General</em><br />15. The Arts of China<br /><br /><em>Calligraphy and Painting</em><br />16. Chinese Calligraphy<br /><br />17. Beyond Representation<br /><br /><em>Music</em><br />18. 中国文化全知道&nbsp; - 音乐<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. 音乐的起源 - 音乐荟萃，现代中国音乐<br /><br /><em>Theater</em><br />19. 中国文化全知道 - 戏剧<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. 戏曲概论 - 戏曲欣赏</p>
<h3>Literature</h3>
<p><em>General</em><br />20. 中国文化全知道 - 文学<br /><br /><em>Novels</em><br />21. The Three Kingdoms<br /><br />22. Journey to the West<br /><br />23. Water Margin<br /><br />24. The Story of the Stone<br /><br /><em>Letters, Essays and Autobiographies</em><br />25. 3 Kingdoms and Northern and Southern Dynasties Letters<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Yang Yun<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Xi Kang<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Tao Qian<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;d. Kong Zhigui<br /><br />26. 3 Kingdoms and Northern and Southern Dynasties Essays<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Lu Chi<br /><br />27. Tang Essays<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Han Yu<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Liu Zongyuan<br /><br />28. Song Essays<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Ouyang Xiu<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Su shi<br /><br />29. Qing Essays<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Li Yu<br /><br />30. Qing Autobiographies<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Shen Fu<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Shen Congwen<br /><br />31. Modern Essays<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Wang Tie<br /><br /><em>Misc. Fiction</em><br />32. Tang Short Stories<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Yuan Chen<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Bai Xingjian<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Du Guangting<br /><br />33. Yuan Theater<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Kang Jinzhi<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Ma Zhiyuan<br /><br />35. Ming Ghost Stories<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. The Jade Guanyin<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Qu You<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Ma Zhongxi<br /><br />36. Ming Theater<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Tang Xianzu<br /><br />37. Qing Fantasy<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Pu Songling<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Yuan Mei<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Li Ruzhen<br /><br />38. Modern Short Stories<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Lu Xun<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;b. Mao Dun<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;c. Eileen Chang<br /><br />39. Modern Drama<br />&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;a. Yao Shennong</p>
<h3>History</h3>
<p>40. Sima Qian<br /><br />41. This Culture of Ours<br /><br />42. Emperor of China<br /><br />43. Mao&rsquo;s China Before and After<br /><br />44. On China</p>
<h3>Poetry</h3>
<p>45. Classical Chinese Poetry<br /><br />46. The Collected Songs of Cold Mountain<br /><br />47. 170 Chinese Poems<br /><br />48. Anthology of Chinese Literature - Songs of the Yuan Dynasty</p>
<h3>Fancy</h3>
<p>49. The Ancient Art of Tea</p>
